Support Elastic Common Schema (ECS) in OpenTelemetry (#222)
open-telemetry/oteps: text/0199-support-elastic-common-schema-in-opentelemetry.md

# Merge Elastic Common Schema with OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions

## Introduction

> This proposal is to merge the Elastic Common Schema (ECS) with the OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions (SemConv) and provide full interoperability in OpenTelemetry component implementations. We propose to implement this by aligning the OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions with [ECS FieldSets](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-field-reference.html#ecs-fieldsets) and vice versa where feasible. The long-term goal is to achieve convergence of ECS and OTel Semantic Conventions into a single open schema (e.g. OpenTelemetry Common Schema).

Reviewer: > OpenTelemetry Common Schema

My understanding based on [this comment](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/pull/222#issuecomment-1424261453) is that "OTEL semconv truly is a "successor" to existing ECS". Let's call this out here. We're not creating a new OpenTelemetry Common Schema, we're merging ECS into Otel Semconv such that Otel Semconv is the successor.

Author: @jack-berg Does the recent change resolve your comment?

## The Goal

> - Long-term, ECS and OTel SemConv will converge into one open standard that is maintained by OpenTelemetry (with Elastic contributing, participating and co-maintaining the new standard). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Long-term, ECS and OTel SemConv will converge into one open standard that is maintained by OpenTelemetry. To kick off this effort, Elastic.co will nominate several domain experts to join the OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers, these approvers will be contributing, participating and co-maintaining the new standard. 
```

> ## The Goal
> - Long-term, ECS and OTel SemConv will converge into one open standard that is maintained by OpenTelemetry. To kick off this effort, Elastic will nominate several domain experts to join the OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers to help with maintaining the new standard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The Goal

- Long-term, ECS and OTel SemConv will converge into one open standard that is maintained by OpenTelemetry. To kick off this effort, Elastic will nominate several domain experts to join the OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers to help with maintaining the new standard.
```

> - OTel SemConv will adopt ECS in its full scope (except for individual adjustments in detail where inevitable), including the logging, observability and security domain fields, to make the new schema a true successor of ECS and OTel SemConv.

Reviewer: I notice that metrics is missing from this list and from other references of the ECS addition, but show up in various places like [host fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-host.html#field-host-cpu-usage). How might ECS metrics, which appear to just be fields, translate to OpenTelemetry metrics which are named and which have attributes as dimensions?

Author: I think these are thinks that would need to be worked out together when working on individual domains, attributes and fieldsets. As this proposal rather describes the overall intent, are you OK with leaving these more detailed discussions on certain schema aspects for later?

Reviewer: > are you OK with leaving these more detailed discussions on certain schema aspects for later? 

Yes, I approved as is 👍

- Migrate ECS and OTel SemConv users to the new common schema over time and provide utilities to allow the migration to be as easy as possible.

> 

Reviewer 2: Add "Elastic.co and OpenTelemetry will coordinate and officially announce the direction (e.g. official websites, blog posts, etc.)".

@jsuereth @trask my English is bad, do you have better wording?

> ## Scope and Overlap of ECS and OTel SemConv
> ECS and OTel SemConv have some overlap today, but also significant areas of mutually enriching fields. The following diagram illustrates the different areas:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Scope and Overlap of ECS and OTel SemConv

ECS and OTel SemConv have some overlap today, but also significant areas of mutually enriching fields. The following diagram illustrates the different areas:
```

<p align="center">
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/866830/223049510-93c5dab0-0fc1-4b54-8ac4-e5bcfef81156.png" width="300">
</p>

1. `A`: ECS comes with a rich set of fields that cover broad logging, observability and security use cases. Many fields are additive to the OTel SemConv and would enrich the OTel SemConv without major conflicts. Examples are [Geo information fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-geo.html), [Threat Fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-threat.html), and many others.
2. `B`: Conversely, there are attributes in the OTel SemConv that do not exist in ECS and would be an enrichment to ECS. Examples are the [Messaging semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/messaging/) or technology-specific conventions, such as the [AWS SDK conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/instrumentation/aws-sdk/).

> 3. `C`: There is some significant area of overlap between ECS and OTel SemConv. The are `C` represents overlappingfields/attributes that are very similar in ECS and OTel SemConv. The field conflicts in `C` can be resolved through simple field renames and simple transformations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. `C`: There is some significant area of overlap between ECS and OTel SemConv. The are `C` represents overlapping fields/attributes that are very similar in ECS and OTel SemConv. The field conflicts in `C` can be resolved through simple field renames and simple transformations.
```

> 4. `D`: For some of the fields and attributes there will be conflicts that cannot be resolved through simple renaming or transformation and would require introducing breaking changes on ECS or OTel SemConv side for the purpose of merging the schemas. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. `D`: For some of the fields and attributes there will be conflicts that cannot be resolved through simple renaming or transformation and would require introducing breaking changes on ECS or OTel SemConv side for the purpose of merging the schemas.
```

## Proposed process to merge ECS with OTel SemConv

> The process of merging ECS with OTel SemConv will take time and we propose to do it as part of the stabilization effort for OTel SemConv. During that period and also for a significant period after the merger (sunset period), Elastic will continue to support ECS as a schema. However, further evolution of ECS will happen on the basis of the new, common schema. Elastic will nominate ECS experts to help with maintainingthe new schema and will require the approver role for the semantic conventions in OpenTelemetry for the new schema.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The process of merging ECS with OTel SemConv will take time and we propose to do it as part of the stabilization effort for OTel SemConv. During that period and also for a significant period after the merger (sunset period), Elastic will continue to support ECS as a schema. However, further evolution of ECS will happen on the basis of the new, common schema. Elastic will nominate ECS experts to help with maintaining the new schema and will require the approver role for the semantic conventions in OpenTelemetry for the new schema.
```

> ## Proposed process to merge ECS with OTel SemConv
> The process of merging ECS with OTel SemConv will take time and we propose to do it as part of the stabilization effort for OTel SemConv. During that period and also for a significant period after the merger (sunset period), Elastic will continue to support ECS as a schema. However, further evolution of ECS will happen on the basis of the new, common schema. Elastic will nominate ECS experts to help with maintaining the new schema and will require the approver role for the semantic conventions in OpenTelemetry for the new schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Proposed process to merge ECS with OTel SemConv

The process of merging ECS with OTel SemConv will take time and we propose to do it as part of the stabilization effort for OTel SemConv. During that period and also for a significant period after the merger (sunset period), Elastic will continue to support ECS as a schema. However, further evolution of ECS will happen on the basis of the new, common schema. Elastic will nominate ECS experts to help with maintaining the new schema and will require the approver role for the semantic conventions in OpenTelemetry for the new schema.
```

With the merger there will be different categories of field conflicts between ECS fields and Otel SemConv attributes (as illustrated in the above figure). We expect the areas `A` and `B` to be less controversial and potentially low-hanging fruits for an enriched, new schema.

> For the areas `C` and `D` we propose to resolve conflicts through a close collaboration as part of the stabilization initiative of the OTel SemConv. Where feasible, the goal is to align the OTel SemConv attributes as close as possible with the existing, stable ECS fields. Where alignment is not feasible, the goal is to identify ways to address field conflicts through technical transformations and aliasing, to bridge existing fields and formats into the new schema and vice versa (e.g. through OpenTelemetry Collector Processors). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the areas `C` and `D` we propose to resolve conflicts through a close collaboration as part of the stabilization initiative of the OTel SemConv. Where feasible, the goal is to align the OTel SemConv attributes as close as possible with the existing, stable ECS fields. Where alignment is not feasible, the goal is to identify ways to address field conflicts through technical transformations and aliasing, to bridge existing fields and formats into the new schema and vice versa (e.g. through OpenTelemetry Collector Processors).
```

While realistically truly breaking changes on ECS and OTel SemConv won't be avoidable as part of the merger, they should be the last resort and need to be discussed on a field-by-field basis.  

## Motivation

Adding the Elastic Common Schema (ECS) to OpenTelemetry (OTel) is a great way to accelerate the integration of vendor-created logging and OTel component logs (i.e. OTel Collector Logs Receivers). The goal is to define vendor neutral semantic conventions for most popular types of systems and support vendor-created or open-source components (for example HTTP access logs, network logs, system access/authentication logs) extending OTel correlation to these new signals.

Adding the coverage of ECS to OTel would provide guidance to authors of OpenTelemetry Collector Logs Receivers and help establish the OTel Collector as a de facto standard log collector with a well-defined schema to allow for richer data definition.

In addition to the use case of structured logs, the maturity of ECS for SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) is a great opportunity for OpenTelemetry to expand its scope to the security use cases.

> Another significant use case is providing first-class support for Kubernetes application logs, system logs, and application introspection events. We would also like to see support for structured events (e.g. [k8seventsreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/k8seventsreceiver)) and using 'content-type' to identify event types.

Author: (see comment below)

> Another significant use case is providing first-class support for Kubernetes application logs, system logs, and application introspection events. We would also like to see support for structured events (e.g. [k8seventsreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/k8seventsreceiver)) and using 'content-type' to identify event types.

Reviewer: Sure, we can sort out the details later, but I would like to understand the intent behind this sentence.

> We would also like to see support for structured events and using `content-type` to identify event types

Does ECS different between structured events and logs? If so , how? What's the significance of `content-type` with respect to event types in ECS?

> Another significant use case is providing first-class support for Kubernetes application logs, system logs, and application introspection events. We would also like to see support for structured events (e.g. [k8seventsreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/k8seventsreceiver)) and using 'content-type' to identify event types.

Reviewer 2: Tracked by https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/issues/3323

   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><a href="https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/data-model.md#log-and-event-record-definition">Body</a> (any)
   </td>
   <td><a href="https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-base.html#field-message">message</a> (match_only_text)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>process.cpu.load (not specified but collected by OTel Collector)
<br/>
<a href="https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/semantic_conventions/process-metrics.md">process.cpu.time</a> (async counter)
<br/>
<a href="https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/semantic_conventions/system-metrics.md">system.cpu.utilization</a>
   </td>
   <td><a href="https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-host.html#field-host-cpu-usage">host.cpu.usage</a> (scaled_float) with a slightly different measurement than what OTel metrics measure
   </td>
   <td>Note that most metrics have slightly different names and semantics between ECS and OpenTelemetry
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

> ## How would OpenTelemetry users practically use the new OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions Attributes brought by ECS
> The concrete usage of ECS-enriched OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions Attributes depends on the use case and the fieldset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How would OpenTelemetry users practically use the new OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions Attributes brought by ECS

The concrete usage of ECS-enriched OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions Attributes depends on the use case and the fieldset.
```

While ECS covers many different use cases and scenarios, in the following, we outline two examples:

### Example: OpenTelemetry Collector Receiver to collect the access logs of a web server

The author of the "OTel Collector Access logs file receiver for web server XXX" would find in the OTel Semantic Convention specifications all
the guidance to map the fields of the web server logs, not only the attributes that the OTel Semantic Conventions has specified today for
[HTTP calls](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/v1.9.0/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/http.md),
but also attributes for the [User Agent](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-user_agent.html)
or the [Geo Data](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-geo.html).

This completeness of the mapping will help the author of the integration to produce OTel Log messages that will be compatible with access logs
of other web components (web servers, load balancers, L7 firewalls...) allowing turnkey integration with observability solutions
and enabling richer correlations.

> ### Other Examples
> - [Logs with sessions (VPN Logs, Network Access Sessions, RUM sessions, etc.)](https://github.com/elastic/ecs/blob/main/rfcs/text/0004-session.md#usage)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Other Examples

- [Logs with sessions (VPN Logs, Network Access Sessions, RUM sessions, etc.)](https://github.com/elastic/ecs/blob/main/rfcs/text/0004-session.md#usage)
```

# Merge Elastic Common Schema with OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions

## Introduction

This proposal is to merge the Elastic Common Schema (ECS) with the OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions (SemConv) and provide full interoperability in OpenTelemetry component implementations. We propose to implement this by aligning the OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions with [ECS FieldSets](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-field-reference.html#ecs-fieldsets) and vice versa where feasible. The long-term goal is to achieve convergence of ECS and OTel Semantic Conventions into a single open schema (e.g. OpenTelemetry Common Schema).

## The Goal

> - Long-term, ECS and OTel SemConv will converge into one open standard that is maintained by OpenTelemetry. To kick off this effort, Elastic will nominate several domain experts to join the OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers. These approvers will be contributing, participating and co-maintaining the new standard.

Reviewer 4: (I don’t foresee any issue, but removing this language makes it sounds less like a requirement, and this is already the definition of what OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers do) 
```suggestion
- Long-term, ECS and OTel SemConv will converge into one open standard that is maintained by OpenTelemetry. To kick off this effort, Elastic will nominate several domain experts to join the OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers.
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Long-term, ECS and OTel SemConv will converge into one open standard that is maintained by OpenTelemetry. To kick off this effort, Elastic will nominate several domain experts to join the OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers to help with maintaining the new standard.
```

2. `B`: Conversely, there are attributes in the OTel SemConv that do not exist in ECS and would be an enrichment to ECS. Examples are the [Messaging semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/messaging/) or technology-specific conventions, such as the [AWS SDK conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/instrumentation/aws-sdk/).
3. `C`: There is some significant area of overlap between ECS and OTel SemConv. The are `C` represents overlappingfields/attributes that are very similar in ECS and OTel SemConv. The field conflicts in `C` can be resolved through simple field renames and simple transformations.
4. `D`: For some of the fields and attributes there will be conflicts that cannot be resolved through simple renaming or transformation and would require introducing breaking changes on ECS or OTel SemConv side for the purpose of merging the schemas. 

## Proposed process to merge ECS with OTel SemConv

> The process of merging ECS with OTel SemConv will take time and we propose to do it as part of the stabilization effort for OTel SemConv. During that period and also for a significant period after the merger (sunset period), Elastic will continue to support ECS as a schema. However, further evolution of ECS will happen on the basis of the new, common schema. Elastic's ECS experts will co-maintain and contribute to the new schema and will require the spec approver role in OpenTelemetry for the new schema.

Reviewer 4: (I like the language “Elastic will nominate …” used above)
```suggestion
The process of merging ECS with OTel SemConv will take time and we propose to do it as part of the stabilization effort for OTel SemConv. During that period and also for a significant period after the merger (sunset period), Elastic will continue to support ECS as a schema. However, further evolution of ECS will happen on the basis of the new, common schema. Elastic will nominate …
```

> With the merger there will be different categories of field conflicts between ECS fields and Otel SemConv attributes (as illustrated in the above figure). We expect the areas `A` and `B` to be less controversial and potentially low-handging fruits for an enriched, new schema.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With the merger there will be different categories of field conflicts between ECS fields and Otel SemConv attributes (as illustrated in the above figure). We expect the areas `A` and `B` to be less controversial and potentially low-hanging fruits for an enriched, new schema.
```

For the areas `C` and `D` we propose to resolve conflicts through a close collaboration as part of the stabilization initiative of the OTel SemConv. Where feasible, the goal is to align the OTel SemConv attributes as close as possible with the existing, stable ECS fields. Where alignment is not feasible, the goal is to identify ways to address field conflicts through technical transformations and aliasing, to bridge existing fields and formats into the new schema and vice versa (e.g. through OpenTelemetry Collector Processors). 

> While realistically truely breaking changes on ECS and OTel SemConv won't be avoidable as part of the merger, they should be the last resort and need to be discussed on a field-by-field basis.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
While realistically truly breaking changes on ECS and OTel SemConv won't be avoidable as part of the merger, they should be the last resort and need to be discussed on a field-by-field basis.  
```

## Motivation

> Adding the Elastic Common Schema (ECS) to OpenTelemetry (OTel) is a great way to accelerate the integration of vendor-created logging and OTel component logs (ie OTel Collector Logs Receivers). The goal is to define vendor neutral semantic conventions for most popular types of systems and support vendor-created or open-source components (for example HTTP access logs, network logs, system access/authentication logs) extending OTel correlation to these new signals.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Adding the Elastic Common Schema (ECS) to OpenTelemetry (OTel) is a great way to accelerate the integration of vendor-created logging and OTel component logs (i.e. OTel Collector Logs Receivers). The goal is to define vendor neutral semantic conventions for most popular types of systems and support vendor-created or open-source components (for example HTTP access logs, network logs, system access/authentication logs) extending OTel correlation to these new signals.
```

Adding the coverage of ECS to OTel would provide guidance to authors of OpenTelemetry Collector Logs Receivers and help establish the OTel Collector as a de facto standard log collector with a well-defined schema to allow for richer data definition.

In addition to the use case of structured logs, the maturity of ECS for SIEM (Security Information and Event Management) is a great opportunity for OpenTelemetry to expand its scope to the security use cases.

> Another significant use case is providing first-class support for Kubernetes application logs, system logs as well as application introspection events. We would also like to see support for structured events (e.g. [k8seventsreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/k8seventsreceiver)) and using 'content-type' to identify event types.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Another significant use case is providing first-class support for Kubernetes application logs, system logs, and application introspection events. We would also like to see support for structured events (e.g. [k8seventsreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/k8seventsreceiver)) and using 'content-type' to identify event types.
```

We'd like to see different categories of structured logs being well-supported in the [OTel Log Data Model](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/data-model.md), presumably through [semantic conventions for log attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/data-model.md#field-attributes). For example, NGINX access logs and Apache access logs should be processed the same way as structured logs. This would help in trace and metric correlation with such log data as well as it would help grow the ecosystem of curated UIs provided by observability backends and monitoring dashboards (e.g. one single HTTP access log dashboard benefiting Apache httpd, Nginx, and HAProxy).

## Customer Motivation

> Adoption of OTel logs will accelerate greatly if ECS is leveraged as the common standard, using this basis for normalization. OTel Logs adoption will be accelerated by this support. For example, ECS can provide the unified structured format for handling vendor-generated along with open source logs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Adoption of OTel logs will accelerate greatly if ECS is leveraged as the common standard, using this basis for normalization. OTel Logs adoption will be accelerated by this support. For example, ECS can provide the unified structured format for handling vendor-generated logs along with open source logs.
```

   </td>
   <td><a href="https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-base.html#field-message">message</a> (match_only_text)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>process.cpu.load (not specified but collected by OTel Collector)
<br/>
<a href="https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/semantic_conventions/process-metrics.md">process.cpu.time</a> (async counter)
<br/>
<a href="https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/semantic_conventions/system-metrics.md">system.cpu.utilization</a>
   </td>
   <td><a href="https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-host.html#field-host-cpu-usage">host.cpu.usage</a> (scaled_float) with a slightly different measurement than what OTel metrics measure
   </td>
   <td>Note that most metrics have slightly different names and semantics between ECS and OpenTelemetry
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## How would OpenTelemetry users practically use the new OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions Attributes brought by ECS

> The concrete usage of ECS-enriched OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions Attributes depends on the use case and the fiedset.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The concrete usage of ECS-enriched OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions Attributes depends on the use case and the fieldset.
```

Note that one of the challenges with Prometheus metrics naming conventions is that these are implicit conventions defined by each integration author which doesn't enable correlation due to the lack of consistency across integrations. For example, this inconsistency increases the complexity that an end-user has to deal with when configuring and monitoring alerts.

Prometheus' conventions are restricted to the style of the name of the metrics (see [Prometheus Metric and label naming](https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/naming/)) but don't specify unified metric names.

## Other areas that need to be addressed by OTel (the project)

Some areas that need to be addressed in the long run as ECS is integrated into OTel include defining the innovation process,

> providing maintainer rights to Elastic contributors who maintain ECS today, ensuring the OTel specification incorporates the changes to

Reviewer 5: I think we discussed removing or changing this wording?

>providing maintainer rights to Elastic contributors who maintain ECS today

# Support Elastic Common Schema in OpenTelemetry

> Collaborators: Alexander Wert (Elastic), Jamie Hynds (Elastic), Alolita Sharma (OTel GC, Apple), Christian Beedgen (Sumo), Jonah Kowall (Logz.io), Tigran Najaryan (Splunk).

Reviewer 6: Is this list up to date?

Reviewer 6: Or is this about the people involved in creating the proposal, rather than people involved/interested in making this effort happen?

Author: This is the list of people initially (when Cyrille created the first proposal) interested in the effort.

> Collaborators: Alexander Wert (Elastic), Jamie Hynds (Elastic), Alolita Sharma (OTel GC, Apple), Christian Beedgen (Sumo), Jonah Kowall (Logz.io), Tigran N. (Splunk), Jamie Hynds (Elastic) .

Reviewer 7: Not sure if I am missing something here, but two things stood out to me in this line: 
* `Jamie Hynds (Elastic)` appears twice.
* Only @tigrannajaryan's last name is abbreviated.

Is this on purpose?

The coverage of ECS is very broad including in depth support for logs, security, and network events such as "[logs.* fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-log.html)" , "[geo.* fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-geo.html)", "[tls.* fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-tls.html)", "[dns.* fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-dns.html)", or "[vulnerability.* fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-vulnerability.html)".

ECS has the following guiding principles:

* ECS favors human readability in order to enable broader adoption as many fields can be understood without having to read up their meaning in the reference,
* ECS events include metadata to enable correlations across any dimension (host, data center, docker image, ip address...),

>   * ECS does not differentiate the metadata fields that are specific to each event of the event source and the metadata that is shared by a¬ll the events of the source in the way OTel does, which differentiates between Resource Attributes and Log/Span/Metrics Attributes,

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * ECS does not differentiate the metadata fields that are specific to each event of the event source and the metadata that is shared by all the events of the source in the way OTel does, which differentiates between Resource Attributes and Log/Span/Metrics Attributes,
```

This proposal is to merge the Elastic Common Schema (ECS) with the OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions (SemConv) and provide full interoperability in OpenTelemetry component implementations. We propose to implement this by aligning the OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions with [ECS FieldSets](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-field-reference.html#ecs-fieldsets) and vice versa where feasible. The long-term goal is to achieve convergence of ECS and OTel Semantic Conventions into a single open schema (e.g. OpenTelemetry Common Schema).

## The Goal

> - Long-term, ECS and OTel SemConv will converge into one open standard that is maintained by OpenTelemetry. To kick off this effort, Elastic will nominate several domain experts to join the OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers to help with maintaining the new standard.

Reviewer 2: I think "several" is good enough and we shouldn't put specific numbers (e.g. 3) in the OTEP because OTEP is capturing the direction rather than providing all the details.

Regarding identifying the OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers, @jsuereth is on point and I'm helping, I think the TC members will make proper decision similar to what we did for previous donations.

> - Long-term, ECS and OTel SemConv will converge into one open standard that is maintained by OpenTelemetry. To kick off this effort, Elastic will nominate several domain experts to join the OpenTelemetry Semantic Convention Approvers to help with maintaining the new standard.

Reviewer 5: ok. i don't have permission to resolve my own conversations for some reason
